# Taking a Long Time to Add or Delete an IPv6 Address for a Bond Interface with Multiple IPv6 Addresses<a name="EN-US_TOPIC_0229622743"></a>

## Symptom<a name="en-us_topic_0161841803_en-us_topic_0159682015_section119221611174719"></a>

When users run the following command to add or delete \(including flush\) an IPv6 address, the waiting time increases linearly along with the number of IPv6 addresses configured on a bond interface.  **X**  is the least significant 16 bits that dynamically change. For example, it takes about five minutes to add 3000 IPv6 address to or delete them from a bond interface that already has four physical NICs using a single thread, while for a common physical NIC, it takes less than 10 seconds.

```
ip a add/del 192:168::18:X/64 dev DEVICE
```

## Possible Cause<a name="en-us_topic_0161841803_en-us_topic_0159682015_section1368134994713"></a>

When an IPv6 address is added to a bond interface, the IPv6 multicast address is generated and synchronized to all physical NICs. The time required increases with the number of IPv6 addresses. As a result, it takes a too long time.

## Solution<a name="en-us_topic_0161841803_en-us_topic_0159682015_section154538584471"></a>

The IPv6 multicast address is generated by combining the least significant 24 bits of the IPv6 address and 33-33-ff. If there are too many multicast addresses, it takes a long time to add or delete the address. If there are a few multicast addresses, the time required is not affected.

It is recommended that you set the least significant 24 bits of the IPv6 address to be the same as the most significant 24 bits of the IPv6 address. In this way, a single NIC can communicate with external devices using only one IP address in a network segment.

